URL : https://extendedcampus.uic.edu/projectmanagement
This website uses scripting to enhance your browsing experience. Enable JavaScript in your browser and then reload this website. This website uses resources that are being blocked by your network. Contact your network administrator for more information. Cookie Notice We use Cookies on this site to enhance your experience and improve our marketing efforts. Click on “About Cookies” to learn more. By continuing to browse without changing your browser settings to block or delete Cookies, you agree to the storing of Cookies and related technologies on your device. University of Illinois Web Privacy Notice Close I Agree About Cookies What are Cookies? Strictly Necessary Cookies Performance Cookies Functional Cookies Targeting Cookies More Information About Cookies Always Active I Agree Allow All Your browser is unsupported We recommend using the latest version of IE11, Edge, Chrome, Firefox or Safari. Skip to the content of this page , the main menu , Google Translate , the site search form or go to the the site home page . Extended Campus Search Extended Campus Extended Campus Google Translate Main Menu Courses Programs Certificate in Nonprofit Management Grant Writing Workshop Project Management Courses Social Enterprise Certificate Online Pathways Partner with Us Eyebrow menu Contact Us About UIC menu UIC.edu Campus Map 404 Not Found Verify that the URL you are requesting is correct, complete, and has not been truncated in email transit. Extended Campus Contact UIC Extended Campus (MC 140), 1333 S. Halsted Street, Suite 205, Chicago, IL 60607 Phone: (312) 355-0423 extendedcampus@uic.edu Social Media Accounts UIC.edu links UIC.edu Academic Calendar Athletics Campus Directory Disability Resources Emergency Information Event Calendar Job Openings Library Maps UIC Safe Mobile App UIC Today UI Health Veterans Affairs Powered by Red 2.7.0 © 2020  The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois | Privacy Statement Campuses University of Illinois System Urbana-Champaign Springfield Save