URL : https://facebook.com/uic.edu
 Jump to Sections of this page Accessibility Help Press alt + / to open this menu Facebook Email or Phone Password Forgot account? Home About Photos YouTube Reviews Videos Events Posts Community See more of University of Illinois at Chicago on Facebook Log In or Create New Account See more of University of Illinois at Chicago on Facebook Log In Forgot account? or Create New Account Not Now University of Illinois at Chicago College & University in Chicago, Illinois 4.1 4.1 out of 5 stars. Community See All 70,877 people like this 73,293 people follow this 152,278 check-ins About See All 601 S Morgan St (1.14 mi) Chicago, Illinois 60607 Get Directions (312) 996-7000 www.uic.edu College & University Page Transparency See More Facebook is showing information to help you better understand the purpose of a Page. See actions taken by the people who manage and post content. Page created - November 9, 2007 People 70,877 likes 152,278  visits Related Pages University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign College & University UIC News College & University Coursera Education UIClife College & University The University of Chicago College & University UIC Center for Student Involvement College & University UIC Flames Sports Team UIC Campus Housing Business Service UIC College of Engineering Campus Building Chicago Mayor's Office Government Organization Loyola University Chicago College & University ABC 7 Chicago Movie/Television Studio University of Michigan College & University Humans of UIC Arts & Humanities Website Purdue University College & University UIC SAB Arts & Entertainment Time Out Chicago Media/News Company Indiana University College & University University of Wisconsin-Madison College & University UIC Honors College College & University See More triangle-down Pages Liked by This Page Children's Hospital University of Illinois The Urban Transportation Center at UIC UIC Biomedical Visualization University of Illinois Cancer Center UIC Heritage Garden Cure Violence C-stop UIC Asian American Resource and Cultural Center - AARCC UIC English for International Professionals Series UIC SAB North Lawndale Presidential Library UIC Bhangra Student Veterans Association at UIC UI Health Volunteers UIC Dancing Flames UIC Men's Basketball UIC Safer Sex Fest Prison Terminal: The Last Days of Private Jack Hall UIC Radio UIC PEP BAND See More triangle-down Places Chicago, Illinois University of Illinois at Chicago English (US) · Español · Português (Brasil) · Français (France) · Deutsch Privacy · Terms · Advertising · Ad Choices · Cookies · More Facebook © 2020 Photos See All Recommendations and Reviews How about taking care of the patients who sats are only 88-90% instead of trying to discharge them h ... ome and without O2. Shameful.  See More April 24 you have an employee that is harassing me and belittling me when I have told him to stop.  https://ww ... w.facebook.com/akletzien  See More May 2 I graduated with my bachelors degree and two more graduate degrees after that from the University of ... Illinois at Chicago. The campus, student body, and university culture has changed over the last thirty years, but it is an excellent university that has given me so much more than I had originally anticipated. I am returning in 2019 to earn my fourth masters degree in educational policy studies and teacher leadership. I highly recommend this excellent and diverse university for anyone interested in pursuing higher education in the Chicagoland area.  See More May 26, 2018 See All See More   